{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red107\green0\blue1;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17340\viewh10740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The historical gravitational wave detection of a neutron star merger last year ushered in a new era for the study of these fascinating compact objects. It revealed their final masses and spins, two invaluable records to understand the evolution of these highly magnetized spinning tops. High Mass X-ray Binaries (HMXB) are thought to be the progenitors of these systems. During this transient albeit decisive phase of the life of massive binaries, mass is transferred from a donor star to an orbiting neutron star which collapsed earlier on. The stellar material accreted applies a torque on the neutron star which spins it up or down, depending on the coupling between the flow and the magnetosphere. \
\
In several HMXB, mass transfer proceeds through the capture of a turbulent stellar wind slow enough to be significantly deflected by the orbital effects. By the time it reaches the magnetosphere, it can form a disc whose extent, thickness and even direction of rotation vary a lot in time. The \
\
When mass transfer proceeds through the capture of the stellar line-driven wind, the flow can gain a significant amount of angular momentum as it speeds up towards the accretor, but not enough\
\
provided the accretor\
\
wind | turbulent | enhanced accretion | spin-up/down torque\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf0 Massive stars live a forceful life during which they shape galaxies with their mechanical, \ul radiative\ulnone  and chemical feedback. Most of them evolve in a binary system where the two stars orbit close enough to exchange mass, angular momentum and sometimes merge during their evolution \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul DeMink2012\ulnone \}. The recent detection of gravitational waves granted us access to the very last moment of this epic journey : the coalescence between two compact objects. It revealed the final masses and spins the black holes (\cf2 \\bh)\cf0  and neutrons stars (\cf2 \\ns)\cf0  involved acquired during their turbulent lifetime \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul TheLIGOScientificCollaboration2017\ulnone \}. The missing link between these two stages are High Mass X-ray Binaries (\cf2 \\hmxb\cf0 ), systems where stellar material is transferred to an orbiting compact remnant. This decisive period determines whether a compact binary with an orbital separation small enough to spiral-in and merge within a Hubble time will eventually be formed. \
\
Evolutionary models are being developed to predict the upcoming distributions of parameters such as effective spins in \cf2 \\bh-\\bh\cf0  mergers \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul Belczynski2017\ulnone \} but thorough and repeated observations of individual \cf2 \\hmxb\cf0  remind us the complexity of phenomena which puts at risk the secular tracks we compute. In particular, the question of the capture of angular momentum by wind-fed compact objects is not settled and need to be addressed to predict the frequency of compact objects mergers and trace back their tumultuous history, two topics of direct interest to elucidate NASA's Cosmic Origins question "How did we get here?" but also "How does the universe work?". \
\
Massive stars live a forceful life during which they shape galaxies with their mechanical, \ul radiative\ulnone  and chemical feedback. Most of them evolve in a binary system where the two stars orbit close enough from each other to exchange mass, angular momentum and sometimes merge during their evolution \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul DeMink2012\ulnone \}. Those who remain bounded after the supernova explosion of one the two objects can become a High Mass X-ray Binaries (\cf2 \\hmxb\cf0 ), systems where stellar material is transferred to the compact remnant, either a neutrons star (\cf2 \\ns\cf0 ) or a black hole (\cf2 \\bh\cf0 ). This temporary albeit decisive period in the binary evolution determines its final fate, once a compact binary is formed. The recent detection of gravitational waves granted us access to the very last moment of this epic journey : the coalescence between two compact objects. It revealed the final masses and effective spins the \cf2 \\bh\cf0  and \cf2 \\ns\cf0  involved acquired during their turbulent lifetime \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul TheLIGOScientificCollaboration2017\ulnone \}. These systems are thought to be the fruit of a massive binary evolution which can lead, under stringent conditions, to compact binaries with orbital separations close enough to spiral-in and merge within a Hubble time. \
\
\
\
\
\
Evolutionary models are being developed to predict the upcoming distributions of parameters such as effective spins in \cf2 \\bh-\\bh\cf0  mergers \cf2 \\citep\cf0 \{\ul Belczynski2017\ulnone \} but thorough and repeated observations of individual \cf2 \\hmxb\cf0  remind us the complexity of phenomena which puts at risk the secular tracks we compute. In particular, the question of the capture of angular momentum by wind-fed compact objects is not settled and need to be addressed to predict the frequency of compact objects mergers and trace back their tumultuous history, two topics of direct interest to elucidate NASA's Cosmic Origins question "How did we get here?" but also "How does the universe work?". \
}